There are three main ways that we would
apply CSS.The primary one that you're
probably used to is creating
an external CSS stylesheet with a link
that you would link in
the head of your HTML element.
The second way that you can apply CSS,
typically,
is creating style tags in
the head of your document and
just actually writing
the CSS in your HTML file.
And then lastly, we've got inline on
HTML elements using the style attribute,
which typically is not
a great way to do it.
Let's talk about some of
the problems with CSS.
First, we need to kind
of examine specificity.
You might not have even
heard this term before.
But this is the mathematical equation
of how our styles are applied to our
HTML elements.
So there are three different
big buckets of CSS specificity.
So the first are type selectors and
pseudo elements.
So you can see we've got an h1 tag and
the pseudo element here, so
the before element.
The second is class selectors,
attribute selectors, and pseudo classes.
So we've got a class of cat,
we have an input type of radio, so
that's our attribute selectors.
And we've got the pseudo class of hover
and then last bucket is ID selectors.
So essentially, going back to this real
quick, the way that our styles are applied
are by examining how specific a style
is and that accrues a point value.
So the most specific style wins.
So an ID selector is much more specific
than just selecting all h1 tags.
And so whatever has the ID selector,
whatever styles are in that,
are gonna be applied.